



QUIC                                                           M. Kozuka
Internet-Draft                                        Okayama University
Intended status: Informational                             31 March 2023
Expires: 2 October 2023


                 Multipath QUIC Path Failover Mechanism
                   draft-kozuka-quic-failover-latest

Abstract

   The proposed path failover mechanism provides a seamless way to
   recover from path failures in Multipath QUIC.  It allows the protocol
   to take advantage of multiple paths while maintaining reliability and
   security.  The implementation and deployment of this mechanism should
   be done with careful consideration of security and performance.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at https://masa-
   koz.github.io/quic-failover/draft-kozuka-quic-failover.html.  Status
   information for this document may be found at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-kozuka-quic-failover/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the QUIC Working Group
   mailing list (mailto:quic@ietf.org), which is archived at
   https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/quic/.  Subscribe at
   https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/quic/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/masa-koz/quic-failover.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 2 October 2023.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Path Failover Mechanism
   4.  Security Considerations
   5.  IANA Considerations
   6.  Normative References
   Acknowledgments
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   Multipath QUIC provides improved network performance and reliability
   by using multiple network paths concurrently.  However, if one of the
   paths fails, it can cause a disruption in the communication.  This
   document proposes a path failover mechanism for Multipath QUIC, which
   allows it to recover from path failures seamlessly.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

3.  Path Failover Mechanism

   Multipath QUIC uses multiple paths to transfer data concurrently.
   Each path has its own metrics, such as RTT, available bandwidth, and
   congestion level.  These metrics are monitored by the sender using
   the Path Quality Estimation (PQE) framework.  When a path failure is
   detected, the sender chooses a new path to transfer data.  The sender
   detects a path failure when the path metrics show a significant
   degradation.  This can be caused by a network outage or congestion.
   If the path metrics remain degraded for a certain duration, the
   sender assumes the path has failed and triggers the failover
   mechanism.  When the failover mechanism is triggered, the sender
   selects a new path to transfer data from a list of available paths.
   The selection criteria can be based on various factors, such as
   available bandwidth, RTT, and congestion level.  The sender also
   considers the path diversity to choose a path that is different from
   the failed path.  After selecting a new path, the sender checks
   whether it is valid by sending a connectivity check packet.  If the
   path is valid, it starts sending data on the new path.  If the new
   path also fails, the sender repeats the failover mechanism with a
   different path.

4.  Security Considerations

   The failover mechanism should not compromise the security of the
   communication.  The selection of a new path should not leak
   information about the failed path or the communication itself.
   Therefore, the selection criteria should not depend on any
   information that can be obtained by an eavesdropper.  The
   connectivity check packet should be authenticated to prevent spoofing
   attacks.  The sender should verify the authenticity of the packet
   before deciding to use the new path.  The sender should also limit
   the number of failover attempts to prevent denial-of-service attacks.
   The failover mechanism should not introduce any new vulnerabilities
   to the Multipath QUIC protocol.  Therefore, it should be thoroughly
   tested and reviewed before being deployed.

5.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

6.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Author's Address

   Masahiro Kozuka
   Okayama University
   Email: masa.koz@kozuka.jp
